[Music]
welcome to another episode of 7-minute
marketing with Pam my name is Pam dinner
I love sharing a little dose of b2b
digital content marketing and sales
enablement seven minutes at a time many
businesses use Google Analytics to
measure website traffic pay search
performance organic search optimization
and even track sales and the conversions
so how much do you know about Google
Analytics well I'm the first one to
confess I didn't know much about it my
Google Analytics knowledge was limited
to the measurement of the website
traffic such as pageviews bounce Ray's
top 10 most view content numbers of
visitors from different countries and a
content views by devices that was about
it but I know that Google Analytics can
do so much more when I was in a cobra
role I had a team who would prepare the
analytics reports and recommendations I
would just review them mostly just to
prove their recommendations and what was
needed to be optimized as the next steps
I didn't have to get my hands dirty
mostly I couldn't judge if the
recommendations were good or bad because
I didn't do a deep dive into data to
understand how the analysis was done I
told the team's recommendation a face
value I ran into the similar issues when
I started working for myself I know my
questions to ask but I didn't know how
to customize or use Google Analytics
effectively to find the answers on my
own so I hire someone to help me out we
try to standardize the dashboard but I
had different questions every time when
ever we reviewed dashboard by asking
questions I was trying to view data in a
different light to see if I could find
other ways to better optimize the
website or drive higher traffic and of
course different questions means
different dashboards he will pour
different
reports and we would schedule several
follow-up meetings since I pay him by
hours it got expensive very quickly I
decided it was time to take the issues
into my own hands and really understand
how Google Analytics works first I went
to YouTube to find any courses that I
can take many of them require me to pay
I was like ah there got to be a better
way to do this so I went to Google
directly duh voila Google Offers
systematic courses for their users in
the Google Analytics Academy yay and you
can find beginner and advanced courses
right inside the tool every course is
divided into four to six modules and
each module offer several five to ten
minute videos what demos that you can
watch it took me about five hours to go
through the beginner and advanced
courses I have to say that it was
incredibly useful and beneficial after
that I understand the methodology behind
the analytics the definition of
different terms they use even a layout
of deity faux dashboards when I was
watching the course videos I had my
Google Analytics account open and tested
the instruction and steps real times it
was five hours well spent so here my
takeaway from completing the courses
number one for some analytics tools you
can take the dashboard as it is for
scalable and fluid analytics tools that
you can personalize and a customized you
need to understand how the tools work
and their methodologies behind it in
order to gain insight into your data
number two business goals don't
necessarily directly translate to the
goals in your analytics tools you need
to set up the goals in a way that the
tools can be used to track relevant
metrics number three you need to put in
the time to learn and use the tools the
tools are as good as gold only if you
use them
on a regular basis lastly using tracking
codes is super super important it's a
way to tell your analytics tools what
information to gather I started to
understand the relationships between
reports and the structure of raw data my
newfound understanding of Google
Analytics led to the restructuring of my
own dashboard especially go settings and
the purchase funnel conversions although
I have business goals in terms of
revenues and a new customers my goals in
Google Analytics focuses on conversions
number of subscribers content downloads
and schedule meetings business goals and
the Google Analytics goals don't exactly
translate one to wine yet I am able to
make the connection between Google
Analytics goals and the business goals
so the greatest benefits of digital
marketing is the ability to understand
prospects digital footprint and analyze
the data to offer a better customer
experience so to analyze the data we
need to understand our tools better
again send me your marketing questions
or thoughts via Twitter app ham dinner
any well until next time
you
[Music]